[[troubleshooting]]
= Troubleshooting

* On macOS Catalina the Tcl/Tk menu bar is sometimes not working. Switching to another application and then back to ProB seems to solve the problem.

* Avoid installing ProB in a path with spaces or other special
characters in them. The same holds for B machines you wish to analyze
with ProB.

* You need Tcl/Tk (preferably 8.5 or newer) installed on your machine.
On Linux you will get the error message: ./prob: error while loading
shared libraries: libtk.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file
or directory if Tcl/Tk is not proberly installed. You can get Tcl/Tk at
http://www.tcl.tk/software/tcltk/.

* For the very latest version of ProB (1.2.0 or newer), you need a Java
1.5 Runtime environment or newer (you will get a message "Could not
execute parser." with "Error: java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError"
when opening a machine). You can obtain Java at
http://java.sun.com/j2se/index.jsp[http://java.sun.com/j2se/index.jsp].

* On Mac OS X, if you have trouble opening larger B machines this may be
due to Mac OS X giving too little memory to ProB. Use 'limit data
unlimited' (in tcsh) or 'ulimit -d unlimited' (in bash) before launching
ProB from the command line.

* ProB prior to version 1.3.0 may require more typing information than
AtelierB, B4Free or the BToolkit. It is usually good style to explicitly
type all variables and parameters. Hint: avoid using the same variable
name for different variables (e.g., in two different set
comprehensions). This way you will know which variable ProB is referring
to in error messages. As of version 1.3.0, ProB performs full type
inference and checking, using a unification based algorithm which is
more powerful than the type inference in the other B tools.
