[[prob-validation-for-siemens-sas]]
= ProB Validation for Siemens SAS

== Situation

During the course of the European FP7 project Deploy, Siemens deployed
the ProB software to check if it was feasible to use ProB to
automatically check B models. These models were already used in a
production environment and related to the track topology and signal
data. At that point in time, the properties in question took Siemens
several weeks to manually check (about a man month of effort).

== Challenge

The challenge facing the STUPS team (Softwaretechnik und
Programmiersprachen) at the University of DÃ¼sseldorf is described in the
Deploy Deliverable D41. Siemens sent the STUPS team the models for the
San Juan case study on 8 July 2008. There were 23,000 lines of B spread
over 79 files, two of which were to be analysed: a simpler model and a
hard model. It then took STUPS a while to understand the models and get
them through the new parser, the development of which was being
finalised at the time.

== Solution

ProB was able to analyse the simple model right away. One error in the
assertions was discovered. Then ProB was improved so that the analysis
of the difficult model was possible. The improvements that were made
were not specific to the model in question, but were rather general
improvements that benefited all ProB users. The results of the analysis
were conclusive.

On 8 December 2008 the STUPS team were finally able to animate and
validate the complicated model. This revealed four errors. Note that the
STUPS team were not told about the presence of errors in the models
(they were not even hinted at by Siemens), and initially STUPS believed
that there was still a bug in ProB. In fact, the errors were genuine and
they were exactly the same errors that Siemens had uncovered themselves
by manual inspection.

== Results

The results shows that ProB was a great success. Instead of taking
several weeks to inspect the properties manually, ProB was able to check
the properties in 4.15 seconds and the assertions in 1017.7 seconds
(around 17 minutes) using ProB 1.3.0. Performance tuning for the ProB
software has continued. The assertion checking for the above model now
takes less than one minute using the current version of ProB.

== Papers

More details can be found in these papers:

* https://www3.hhu.de/stups/downloads/pdf/LeFaFrPl2011.pdf[FAC'2011]
* https://www3.hhu.de/stups/downloads/pdf/LeFaFrPl09_248.pdf[FM'2009]
* https://www3.hhu.de/stups/downloads/pdf/abs-1210-6815.pdf[Formally
Checking Large Data Sets in the Railways, 2012]

== Complicated Formula

Below we show the graphical visualisation of a complicated property by
ProB's graphical formula viewer. The graphics are also available as
https://www3.hhu.de/stups/prob/images/4/44/GraphicalViewerSiemensSaoPauloL9.pdf[pdf]
The property is the following one:

....
!iti_ztr.(iti_ztr: t_iti_ztr_pas =>
  !(cv_ztr1,cv_ztr2).(cv_ztr1: t_cv_ztr & cv_ztr2: t_cv_ztr &
    cv_ztr1: {aa,bb | aa: t_iti_ztr_pas & bb: t_cv_ztr &
      bb: inv_iti_ztr_cv_liste_i[inv_iti_ztr_cv_deb(aa)..inv_iti_ztr_cv_fin(aa)]}[{iti_ztr}] &
    cv_ztr2: {aa,bb | aa: t_iti_ztr_pas & bb: t_cv_ztr &
      bb: inv_iti_ztr_cv_liste_i[inv_iti_ztr_cv_deb(aa)..inv_iti_ztr_cv_fin(aa)]}[{iti_ztr}] &
    not(cv_ztr1 = cv_ztr2)
   =>
    inv_ztr_cv_pas_i(inv_iti_ztr_pas_i(iti_ztr)|->cv_ztr1)
                      |->inv_ztr_cv_pas_i(inv_iti_ztr_pas_i(iti_ztr)|->cv_ztr2)
      :
    dom(inv_cv_sens_orientation)))
....

It stems from a Siemens model for the automatic controller for Line 9 of
Sao Paulo. The property defied validation using Atelier B or alternate
methods.

Indeed, the property is related to routes from one zone controller to
another one: each route is decomposed into virtual blocks, each virtual
block is linked with another virtual block by a function, and each
couple of blocks has a direction. This property checks the coherence of
all these items. This property involves several large functions, with
images of images of functions, and has a double universal quantifier.
All this lead to a proof tree and a goal size that is beyond the
capabilities of Atelier B.

image::GraphicalViewerSiemensSaoPauloL9.png[]
